## Things Inform Does

Here are some things that Dialog, Inform, et al. do for you with no effort that you will have to build from scratch if you use Python, and will have to do a good job with to avoid irritating players and sending them away shaking their heads. This is only a partial list.

- Setting up a data ontology for your created world and settling on an underlying machine-readable representation for each object in the game.
- Parsing, of course.
- Loading and saving.
- Making it possible to undo an action.
- Buffering text, deciding whether there needs to be a “press a key to continue” message when a whole page has been printed so it doesn’t scroll off the screen before the player has read it, and wrapping text to the window width.
- Pluralizing irregular nouns.
- Building text out of templates and text substitutions.
- Conjugating verbs and dealing with subject-verb agreement.
- Ensuring your underlying world model remains consistent when you modify it.
- Inventing a system by which it’s possible to talk to NPCs, and give them commands that they may or may not obey.
- A few dozen standard commands, meta-commands, and debugging commands (INVENTORY, EXAMINE, GO, RESTART, LOOK, SCORE, ABSTRACT, PURLOIN, …)
- Making it possible for actions to be taken by NPCs in addition to the player character.
- Putting a few hundred sensible real-world boundaries in place to keep the realistic illusion in place (“if A and B are both containers, and B is inside A, then it should not be possible to also put A into B at the same time”).
- Packaging the game in such a way that it’s easy for everyone who already plays parser IF to run. (Lots of people double-click on a story file and their preferred ‘terp pops up. Lots of people prefer it that way. Are you writing a console app that reads from stdin and writes to stdout? Not everybody’s computer is already set up to pop up a terminal emulator to run a Python file when a Python script is double-clicked from their file browser. For a goodly sized chunk of people, that’s already a deal-breaker: they will not open a terminal, navigate to the appropriate folder, and type a command to get your program running. They will not deal with the “do I have to type python3.exe before the name of your program?” question. Having to install Python first is already a deal-breaker for many people running Windows. Are you using other modules than those installed in the standard library? Hopefully you can redistribute them, because asking end-users to deal with pip means losing another big chunk of your potential players.)
-Dealing with security issues. (This is a whole huge can of worms on its own, largely involving player trust. A story file generated by [say] Inform or Dialog is largely sandboxed so that it can’t steal data off of your hard drive and send it off to a remote server. This is of course not true for Python programs, which can of course do precisely that. And you’re not thinking about using the pickle module to handle saving and loading your game, are you? Another can of security worms: Pickle files are a Turing-complete computation system that can do more or less anything the Python language itself can do. If players are, or might be, exchanging game saves, and those game saves are Pickle files, than your game’s save files are a potential attack vector: opening a maliciously crafted game save could steal information from a player, erase their hard drive, etc. etc. etc.).

